---
title: "Laravel 5 Learning Path"
draft: true
source: original
---

As developers, one of the most important things we can do for both ourselves and the projects that we work on, is continuous learning. This is especially true for our field, as it's constantly changing and evolving every single day. Below is a list of learning resources, the majority of which are from Laracasts (well... all), that will help build a solid foundation in your understanding and use of code and architecture.

The first things that you'll notice is the sheer amount of content below. Don't panic though! Each one of the lessons linked below are no more than 5-10 minutes long. They're easy to get through, and you may find yourself craving for more once you get into a habit of things!

## PHP Essentials
Please be sure that you understand the following concepts before moving on.

1. [Namespacing Primer]()
2. [When to Interface]()
3. [The Interface Necessity]()
4. [Let's Talk Exceptions]()
5. [What's a Trait?]()

## Learning Laravel
The following lessons will walk you through object oriented design, and then slowly introduce you to Laravel. Each lesson builds off of the previous one, so it's best to simply go through them in order.

### Object-Oriented Bootcamp
> As wonderful as Laravel is, it does assume that you have a basic understanding of object-oriented programming. If you don't, that's okay, we all were there at one point; however, you need to buckle down and learn this stuff before continuing on to the various lessons on this site. Let me help!

### Laravel 5 Fundamentals
> Hi, I'm Jeffrey. Nice to meet you. So you're new to Laravel and modern PHP development? Interested in a guide, who will steer you through these new waters? Maybe I can help! Learning a framework can be a daunting task, but not to worry: learning Laravel is fun!

### The Repository Design Pattern
I make use of the repository design pattern quite extensively. It's an essential design pattern to master in order to keep code easy to navigate and maintain for large applications. It effectively reduces code duplication and opens the door to unit testing later down the road.

### Laravel and the Front-end
> Let's take a break from the back-end, and instead focus on that other world: the front-end! Don't worry, Laravel 5 has made this process as enjoyable as it can be. We'll review everything from Bower to Laravel Elixir.

### Intermediate Laravel
> Made your way through Laravel 5 Fundamentals yet? Nice job! It's time to dig a bit deeper. In this series, not only we'll we review higher level features, such as using the Scheduler component and dispatching commands and events, but we'll also often peak behind the scenes to figure out how each piece fits together.

### Build Your First Laravel App
> Made your way through Laravel 5 Fundamentals, and now feel ready to take the next step? Let's build our first little app together, one step at a time! We'll tackle a small, but useful tool that I require for Laracasts. This will give us some nice seeds to discuss authentication, forms, Eloquent, and more!

## Hone Your Development
These lessons are meant to be finished whenever you have time. They're not directly tied in to learning Laravel, but are topics that can boost your development skills.

### Simple Rules for Simpler Code
> If you've ever heard a developer use the term, "object calisthenics," you might have assumed that they were referring to some hugely complex topic. Luckily, though, that's not the case. It simply refers to a series of coding exercises to promote better software.

### SOLID Principles
> What are these SOLID principles I keep hearing about?

### Design Patterns
> I bought a design patterns book, and didn't understand a single page. Can you help?

### Understand Regular Expressions
> Does the thought of a confusing regular expression send chills down your back? Don't worry; you're in the majority. But, luckily, the truth is that the trick to understanding regular expressions simply boils down to basic memorization. It's not that tough, once you know what you're looking for.

### Code Katas in PHP
> If martial artists use kata as a method for exercise and practice, what might be the equivalent for coders, like us? Well, code katas are short, repeatable programming challenges, which are meant to exercise everything from your focus, to your workflow.

### Testing Jargon
> There's no two ways about it: terminology in the testing world is incredibly overwhelming. Let's fix that! Bit by bit, we'll break all of these confusing concepts down as best as we can.

### Testing, Testing, Testing
> Can you help me learn more about testing?